Translated techlab 3.5 to english (#31)
appuio/techlab: labs/10_persistent_storage.md

> # Lab 10: Persistent Storage and use for database

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Lab 10: Persistent Storage
```

> Data in a pod is not persistent, which is also the case in our example. If, for example, our MySQL pod disappears because of a change to the image, the existing data in the new pod will no longer exist. To prevent this, we are now attaching persistent storage to our MySQL pod.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Data in a pod is not persistent, which is also the case in our example. If for some reason our MySQL pod were to crash, the data written by the old pod would be lost. To prevent this, we are now attaching persistent storage to our MySQL pod.
```

## Task: LAB10.1

### Storage anfordern

> Appending Persistent Storage is actually done in two steps. The first step involves the creation of a so-called PersistentVolumeClaim for our project. In the claim, we define, among other things, its name and size, so how much persistent memory we want to have at all.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Attaching persistent storage is actually done in two steps. The first step involves the creation of a so-called PersistentVolumeClaim for our project. In this claim, we define its name and how much storage we'd like to get, among other things.
```

> However, the PersistentVolumeClaim represents the request, but not the resource itself. It is therefore automatically linked by OpenShift to a persistent volume available, with one with at least the requested size. If there are only larger persistent volumes, one of these volumes is used and the size of the claim is adapted. If there are only smaller Persistent volumes, the claim can not be linked and remains open until a volume of the appropriate size (or even larger) appears.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, the PersistentVolumeClaim represents the request but not the resource itself. After its creation it is automatically linked by OpenShift to an available persistent volume that has at least the requested size. If there are only larger persistent volumes then one of these volumes will be used and the size of the claim adapted. If there are but smaller persistent volumes, the claim can not be linked and remains in a pending state until a volume of the appropriate size (or even larger) is made available.
```

> ### Include volume in pod

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Attach Volume
```

> In the second step, the previously created PVC is integrated into the correct pod. In  [LAB 6](06_scale.md) we edited the Deployment Config to insert the Readiness Probe. The same is true for the Persistent Volume. In contrast to [LAB 6](06_scale.md) we can expand the Deployment Config automatically with `oc volume`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During the second step the previously created `Persistent Volume Claim` (PVC) gets attached to the pod. In [lab 6](06_scale.md) we edited the DeploymentConfig to insert a readiness probe. In order to attach the volume we also edit the DeploymentConfig but can do this automatically with the help of `oc volume`.
```

> We will use the project from [LAB 8](08_database.md) `[USER]-dockerimage` again. **Hint:** `oc project [USER]-dockerimage`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will use the project from [lab 8](08_database.md) `[USER]-dockerimage` again. **Hint:** `oc project [USER]-dockerimage`
```

> The following command executes both the steps described at the same time, so it first creates the claim and then binds it as a volume in the pod:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following command executes both steps described above, meaning it first creates the claim and then attaches the volume to the pod:
```

```bash
$ oc volume dc/mysql --add --name=mysql-data --type persistentVolumeClaim \
     --claim-name=mysqlpvc --claim-size=256Mi --overwrite
```

> **Note:** The modified Deployment Config will automatically deploy a new pod to OpenShift. This means, unfortunately, that the previously created DB schema and already inserted data have been lost.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:** The modified DeploymentConfig will automatically deploy a new pod. This unfortunately means that the previously created database schema and inserted data is lost.
```

> Our application creates the DB schema at startup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our application creates the database schema at startup.
```

> **Hint:** redeploy the application pod:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Hint:** Redeploy the application pod:
```

```
$ oc rollout latest example-spring-boot
```

> With the command `oc get persistentvolumeclaim`, or something simple `oc get pvc`, we can now display the newly created PersistentVolumeClaim in the project:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the command `oc get persistentvolumeclaim` or simply `oc get pvc` we can now display the newly created PersistentVolumeClaim in the project:
```

```bash
$ oc get pvc
NAME       STATUS    VOLUME    CAPACITY   ACCESSMODES   AGE
mysqlpvc   Bound     pv34      256Mi      RWO,RWX       14s
```

> The two status and volume attributes tell us that our claim was linked to Persistent Volume pv34.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The two states and volume attributes tell us that our claim was successfully linked to Persistent Volume `pv34`.
```

> With the following command, we can also check whether the volume has been integrated into the Deployment Config:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the following command we can also check whether the volume has been integrated into the DeploymentConfig:
```

```bash
$ oc volume dc/mysql
deploymentconfigs/mysql
  pvc/mysqlpvc (allocated 256MiB) as mysql-data
```

> ## Task: LAB10.2: Persistence test

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Task: LAB10.2: Persistence Test
```

> ### Restore Data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Restoring Data
```

> Repeat [Lab-Task 8.4](08_database.md#l%C3%B6sung-lab84).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Repeat [lab task 8.4](08_database.md#l%C3%B6sung-lab84).
```

### Test

> Now scale the mysql pod to 0 and then back to 1. Observe that the new pod is no longer losing the data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now scale the MySQL pod to 0 and then back to 1. Observe that the new pod is no longer losing the data.
```

---

> **End Lab 10**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**End of lab 10**
```

> <p width="100px" align="right"><a href="11_template.md">Application templates →</a></p>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<p width="100px" align="right"><a href="11_template.md">Application Templates →</a></p>
```
